# White Box Testing Examples
White Box testing is testing done with access to the underlying source code. This is typically where your unit and integration tests will happen. 

## Statement Testing
Anytime you have a block code you want to test, whether an isolated function for a Unit Test or a service layer function along with its repository dependency, you are doing statement testing. Quite literally, you are testing that the statements within your code are doing what you want them to do. Unlike other black box techniques, statement testing does not provide a unique organization tool for determining your test data: instead you have to check what the inputs for the blocks of code you are testing expect, and organize your test data accordingly. NOTE: you should still make use of any requirements understanding you have when determining your test data for a white box scenario, but the unique benefit you have in white box testing is you can look at the source code to further augment your understanding of what needs to be tested.

## Exploratory Testing
Similar to Error Guessing, this involves the tester "exploring" the source code to look for things to test. In an ideal world documentation for features and requirements would always be in sync with the actual work done on the application, but we do not live in an ideal world. Extra features may have been added without documentation being updated, code may have been written that is not explicitly laid out in the requirements in order to make it possible to achieve the requirements, there are all kinds of reasons why just the documentation itself is insufficient to ensure that the whole of the application is being tested effectively. Exploratory testing is a way to bridge the gap between any disconnects between your documentation and actual code.